---
layout: post
title:  "Find Land in a Sea of Thought"
author: gaut
categories: []
tags: [ problem,syntropy,solution,thinking,entropy,]
beforetoc: ""
description: "Find land in a sear of thoughts"
toc: false
image: assets/images/land-in-sea.jpg
# rating: 4.5
comments: false
---

We are humans, equipped with a brain that continuously gather and process information about the world around us, our environment, bascially everything that surround us.

Today, we get waves of information thrown at us to get our attention. These waves of information can hinder our brain and thought process.

It is like starting a new job in a highly complex ecosystem. It is not always a gentle slope into a new domain. It can sometimes take the form of huge waves at high tides, throwing you back to the shore as quickly as you came in.

I refer to this challenge as waves of information that create a sea of thought.

## The Sea of Thought

The sea can be quiet, but many know that wheather conditions, winds and waves, can vary. A true sailor knows that these can take you from one point to another, that they can force one into a specific direction and not always the right one.

Here, I am using the sea as a metaphore for what happens in our brain, when ideating or simply thinking. Navigating the sea represents using our brain, the treatment of information and thoughts, that we integrated in the past, exist now, and that we shall use sooner or later in the future.

The end goal of a thinking process, or when navigating the sea, is to find land. Find that idea, connection, or simply information that one might look for.

## Different States of the Sea

1. Calm Sea: The sea is tranquil with hardly any wave movement. The surface appears smooth and undisturbed. It is ideal for peaceful sailing or anchoring.

2. Choppy Sea: In this state, the sea has small, irregular waves caused by wind and local conditions. The surface is slightly rough and may create a bumpy ride for the boat.

3. Moderate Sea: The sea is characterized by larger waves that are more pronounced. The waves are typically bigger in height and may occasionally break over the bow of the boat. It requires sailors to exercise caution while sailing.

4. Rough Sea: In rough sea conditions, the waves become even larger. There is a considerable swell, and the boat may experience significant motion. It demands experienced sailors and safety measures to ensure a safe way.

5. Stormy Sea: Stormy seas are extremely challenging and dangerous for sailing. In this state, large, powerful waves, are accompanied by strong winds and heavy rain. The sea surface becomes chaotic, and visibility may be reduced. Sailors generally avoid venturing out in such conditions.

6. Swell: Swell refers to the uniform, long-period waves generated by distant storms. Swell waves may not be accompanied by strong winds locally, but they can still cause significant motion and discomfort for sailors.

These different states might as well be used to define the complexity of a problem, or of navigating easily or clearly the sea of information or thoughts our brain experience at all time.



Writing express the process or the way to go from one point to another, one island to another.


Without an anchor, your ship can drift away.

In a storm, strong winds and high waves can cause leeway, or worse, make your boat keel over. 

I sometimes find myself drowning in things. I most certainly need a thinking tool.

It's good to have a boat to navigate the sea. But it's better to have a map and compass.

<!-- Photo de Fabian Wiktor: https://www.pexels.com/fr-fr/photo/bord-de-mer-994605/ -->


The concept of finding potential solutions to a problem. 
It is different then the other way around.
Find things.

### What constitute an idea?

- It is a group, a pathway, often referred to a train of thoughts which put together connect two things and eventually forms something.
- It is a (new) connection between two thoughts, or groups of thoughts.
- An idea can grow to a cluster.

### Why do we need ideas?

- Because we have problems.

In example, I experience trouble to focus on one thing.

The more I search, the more or less I find.

I often fall in a [rabbit hole](/rabbit-hole/)

### How do ideas form?

Ideation on complex, non-linear, problems leads to complex, non-linear concepts.
Ideation on complex, non-linear, problems requires non-linear thinking and often leads to complex, non-linear problems. 

Syntropy: A problem or solution that grow in complexity (an increasing number of moving/separate parts).

Entropy: Reducing the complexity of a problem or solution.



---


A sea of thoughts or thing


---


A tool to navigate your brain when it is drifting in a sea of thoughts, used with method.
A tool to organize your thoughts.


<!-- the [Zettelkasten](https://zettelkasten.de/introduction/) -->
---
